.TH SSHELL 1 "February 2026" "SShell 1.6.3" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
sshell \- persistent shell session manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sshell
[\fI\,COMMAND\/\fR] [\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR]
.PP
.B sshell
\fI\,SESSION@HOST[:PORT]\/\fR
.PP
.B sshell
\fI\,share-TOKEN@HOST[:PORT]\/\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sshell
is a feature-rich terminal multiplexer that creates persistent shell sessions
surviving network disconnections. It combines session persistence (tmux/screen),
network roaming (mosh), session recording (asciinema), multi-user collaboration
(tmate), and a web terminal viewer — all in a single lightweight binary.
.TP
.B \-\-window
Launch SShell in a separate X11 terminal window via
.BR xterm (1).
All other flags and arguments (authentication, host, port, session name) are
forwarded to the new window instance.  The spawned session is fully persistent
— closing the window or detaching with Ctrl+B d leaves the session running in
the daemon and it can be re-attached from any terminal using
.BR sshell\ attach .
Requires \fBDISPLAY\fR to be set and \fBxterm\fR installed.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B sshell
Create a new session and attach to it immediately.
.TP
.B sshell new [\fI\,NAME\/\fR]
Create a new session with optional name. If no name is provided, a unique
name is generated.
.TP
.B sshell attach \fI\,TARGET\/\fR
Attach to an existing session by name or ID.
.TP
.B sshell \fI\,SESSION@HOST[:PORT]\/\fR
Attach to a session on a remote daemon over TCP.
.TP
.B sshell list
List all active sessions with their status.
.TP
.B sshell ls
Alias for 'list'.
.TP
.B sshell kill \fI\,TARGET\/\fR
Terminate a session by name or ID.
.TP
.B sshell rename \fI\,TARGET NEW_NAME\/\fR
Rename a session to a new name.
.TP
.B sshell --share \fI\,SESSION@HOST[:PORT]\/\fR
Enable sharing for a session and print a share token.
.TP
.B sshell \fI\,share-TOKEN@HOST[:PORT]\/\fR
Join a shared collaborative session using the provided token.
.TP
.B sshell --stopshare [\fI\,SESSION@HOST[:PORT]\/\fR]
Disable sharing (and disconnect guest users) for the specified session. If no
session is provided, stops sharing for all sessions owned by the authenticated
inviter on that daemon.
.TP
.B sshell rec-start \fI\,TARGET\/\fR
Start asciicast v2 recording for a session. Prints the output .cast file path.
.TP
.B sshell rec-stop \fI\,TARGET\/\fR
Stop recording for a session. Prints the final .cast file path.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-host \fI\,HOST\/\fR
Remote daemon host for TCP mode (default: 127.0.0.1).
.TP
.B \-\-port \fI\,PORT\/\fR
Remote daemon TCP port (default: 7444).
.TP
.B \-\-unix
Use Unix domain socket mode (legacy/local IPC).
.TP
.B \-\-socket \fI\,PATH\/\fR
Override the Unix socket path.
.TP
.B \-s, \-\-shell \fI\,SHELL\/\fR
Specify which shell to use (default: $SHELL or /bin/bash).
.TP
.B \-\-no-attach
When creating a session, don't attach to it automatically.
.TP
.B \-\-wallet \fI\,ADDRESS\/\fR
Wallet address used for daemon authentication (TCP mode).
.TP
.B \-\-wallet-message \fI\,MESSAGE\/\fR
Wallet message text to verify.
.TP
.B \-\-wallet-signature \fI\,SIGNATURE\/\fR
Wallet signature (0x...) of the message.
.TP
.B \-\-ssh-key-id \fI\,ID\/\fR
SSH-key style fallback identity string (daemon allowlist required).
.SH DETACHING
While attached to a session, press \fBCtrl+B\fR followed by \fBd\fR to detach
without killing the session. The session continues running in the background.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.sshell/daemon.sock
Unix domain socket for client-daemon communication.
.TP
.I ~/.sshell/daemon.pid
PID file for the daemon process.
.TP
.I ~/.sshell/daemon.log
Daemon log file.
.TP
.I ~/.sshell/sessions/
Directory containing session metadata files.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Create and attach to a new session:
.B sshell
.TP
Create a named session for a build task:
.B sshell new build-task
.TP
List all sessions:
.B sshell list
.TP
Attach to an existing session:
.B sshell attach build-task
.TP
Enable session sharing and send token to a collaborator:
.B sshell --share build-task@host-name.com
.TP
Join a shared session:
.B sshell share-XXXXXXXX@host-name.com
.TP
Stop sharing (disconnect guests):
.B sshell --stopshare build-task@host-name.com
.TP
Start recording a session:
.B sshell rec-start build-task
.TP
Stop recording:
.B sshell rec-stop build-task
.TP
Playback a recording:
.B sshell-player ~/.sshell/recordings/<file>.cast 2.0
.TP
Rename a session:
.B sshell rename old-name new-name
.TP
Kill a session:
.B sshell kill build-task
.TP
Open a session in a new X11 terminal window:
.B sshell --window attach build-task
.TP
Create and open a session in a new X11 terminal window with TCP auth:
.B sshell --window --host myserver.com --port 7444 new work-session
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
Error occurred
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sshell-daemon (8),
.BR tmux (1),
.BR screen (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/d31337m3/sshell
.SH AUTHOR
SShell Contributors
